Did you ever wonder what it's like to
live in space?
Taiwan-born NASA astronaut Shaw Lingren
has an answer. He's in Taiwan speaking
to students at National Central
University about his path to the cosmos.
Lingren is part of NASA's Artemis
program aiming to send humans to the
moon.
But his journey wasn't a straightforward
one. He started as a US Air Force pilot,
but a medical discharge changed
everything.
I know with almost 100% certainty that
if I stayed in the Air Force and become
a pilot like I was planning,
I would not be here today.
So, recognizing that even our hardest
days
are not necessarily as bad as we think
they are.
Recognizing that those hard days are
actually challenges to overcome.
Mountains to climb.
Now a veteran of long missions aboard
the International Space Station, he's
sharing his life in orbit, everything
from space medicine to the freedom of
zero gravity.
So, even though you've been in [music]
space for months,
floating, zero gravity never gets old.
The ability to do things that you could
never dream of doing back here [music]
on Earth. Doing front flips, doing back
flips, um just tumbling around the space
[music] station is absolutely amazing
and fun. For many in the audience, the
visit felt personal, seeing someone with
roots in Taiwan reach space.
Lingren's visit, hosted by the American
Institute in Taiwan, also signifies the
growing space partnership between Taiwan
and the US.
Taiwan's government sees space as a key
driver for future technology, everything
from communications to defense. And for
these students, Lingren's visit may just
inspire them to become the next
generation of future scientists and
engineers. Justin Wu and Lily Lamattina
in Taoyuan for Taiwan Plus.